---
layout: post
title: Ardbeg. Arrr.
date: 2018-05-01
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Islay, Ardbeg 10, Ardbeg Uigeadail, Blend, Compass Box No Name]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I stopped by a liquor store to pick up some bitters and noticed a sign saying "try me at the counter" on a bottle of Compass Box No Name. [No Name](http://www.compassboxwhisky.com/whiskies/index.php?id=22) is a limited edition blend that consists of about 75% old Ardbeg alongside Caol Ila, Clynelish and some Highland stock. I've been dying to try old Ardbeg so methinks to myself, "Yes. I will try this." And I did.

<!--more-->

### Compass Box No Name

I was given maybe half a sip in a tiny plastic cup. But hey, it was free so I can't complain. Lovely intense Ardbeg peat smoke filled the room when the bottle opened. The nose in the cup was a bit more subdued. I took the whole half sip at once. It was a bit sweet at first on the tongue and then a light peat smoke started to fill my mouth. I swallowed and then the peat hit harder. It had the full force of an Ardbeg but was a bit more refined. Some citrus notes came out and then a really long peaty finish. I didn't get much complexity but it was really damn good. I'm not sure if I can spring for a full bottle at $130-$140 but I'm awfully tempted.

Well, if I drank old Ardbeg, I absolutely have to drink some younger Ardbeg to compare, right? I poured light ~15 mL pours of the 10 and Uigeadail for comparison.

### Ardbeg 10

Ah, Ardbeg 10. Peaty, ashy, citrusy. I do love you so. I get more of a minerally quality in my mouth than I've had before. There's that nice long Ardbeg finish. I think it's the minerally note that I'm noticing more now. It gives it a bit more depth and complexity than when I first had it. I know there are a lot of folks online who swear by the Uigeadail but the 10 is great on its own

### Ardbeg Uigeadail

I'm pouring this from a 50 mL sampler I opened a few weeks back. I still have one more ~15 mL serving after this. This is the second 50 mL sampler I've tried and I liked my first serving from this bottle far less than the other bottle. The first bottle had a wonderful sherry character and this one was just strong Ardbeg. Which is great and all but very disappointing when you expect sweet notes. How does this serving hold up?

* **Nose:** Strong Ardbeg
* **Taste:** General sweetness in the mouth followed by peat smoke
* **Finish:** Like strong Ardbeg... not getting any sherry notes. I don't get any of the minerally notes that I'm starting to appreciate on the 10. The finish does last quite awhile and is very pleasant.

This again is disappointing. It's really tough to judge an expression when it tastes so different than the way you had it in the past. I'm trying to reframe my expectations around the dram that's actually in front of me... and I get strong Ardbeg... which honestly doesn't do a whole lot for me. Whereas the standard Lagavulin 16 and Laphroaig 10 are a tad watery, Ardbeg 10 holds up really well.

The Uigeadail does pack a bit more flavor, which is nice. It loses the citrus and mineral notes from the 10. I like those notes! I think it's a net minus, unfortunately. I have one more Uigeadail mini and I'm curious to see how it comes out.

Well, despite the Uigeadail disappointment, this was a fun and unexpected day of Ardbeg! Back tomorrow with something different.

Whisky Bob signing off.
