---
layout: post
title: Mystery Hooch - Part 6
date: 2018-04-29
category: blog
tags: [Mystery]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

So I have about 50 mL of each mystery whisky left. I'm going to go through a series of blind tests and slowly roll out the grand reveal today.

<!--more-->

### Blind Test Intro

Mrs. Whisky is graciously pouring blind serves for me. I'm looking for the following notes in my tasting:

* **#1**: Cherry!
* **#2**: Woody, vanilla sweetness
* **#3**: Speyside-like character

### Test #1: Blind Smell Test

The cherry note made #1 easy to distinguish. One of them was a bit sweeter and the other a bit woodier and I correctly called them out as #2 and #3 respectively. Hey, I went 3/3!

### Test #2: Blind Taste Test

Again, #1 was easy to detect because of its distinct cherry note. #2 and #3 were more similar but #2 had a sweet vanilla note. Again, 3/3!

### Test #3: ABV Test

Whisky Matt kindly revealed the ABV, origin and names of each of the three samples. I asked Mrs. Whisky to reveal the ABVs to see if I could guess them. She gave me this list:

* 40%
* 40%
* 40%

Hmmm... well I guess that's another 3/3 by default! I'm not surprised by these results - my guesses were all in the 40s and this makes a lot of sense. I maybe would have put #2 at a higher ABV% just because of how well it held up open overnight.

### Test #4 Origin Test

My blind guesses were Bourbon, Bourbon and Speyside and I'm hoping I can guess from those initial notes. And the origins are...

* France
* France
* France

Wait... what? I guess I get a 3/3 by default again but I don't think Whisky Matty has given me three French whiskies. We're certainly not in Kentucky anymore!

### The Grand Reveal

Whisky Matty, you dirty dog! You've gifted me three very fine cognacs!

* **#1**: Hennesy XO
* **#2**: Courvoisier XO
* **#3**: Remy Martin XO

Wow, what a wonderful surprise! I'm extremely humbled by this generous curve ball. I've been meaning to do a series exploring other spirits and this is a great way to kick it off. Knowing the origins, I feel like I need to appreciate them a bit more and won't be racing to finish these bottles. I'll be savoring them as cognacs and get some of their younger siblings for comparison.

After the reveal, I definitely taste more wine notes from the grapes. It's so interesting how your perspective going into a challenge like this can shape your whole experience. I'm already approaching these with an air of respect... not sure if that's a good or bad thing. This is all to drink, after all, and we shouldn't be too precious about these things.

Thanks for this fun experiment. Looking forward to tasting again knowing the origins. Cognac Matty placed this fine quote along with the drinks:

"It is well to remember that there are five reasons for drinking: the arrival of a friend, one's present or future thirst, the excellence of the cognac, or any other reason."

Here's to many reasons.

Cognac Bob signing off.
