---
layout: post
title: Ardbeg. Arrr.
date: 2018-05-01
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Islands, Talisker 10, Highland Park 12]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I felt like a few days off would be a good thing. Back today kicking off an exploration of the non-Islay Scottish islands (although obviously I need to drink something from Islay to compare :) ). I have samples representative of most of the islands. I'm missing a couple key distillers like Scapa and Ledaig but this should be a pretty good survey.

Here's what I have:

* Isle of Arran - Arran 18 (30 mL)
* Isle of Jura - Jura 12 "Elixer" (30 mL)
* Isle of Skye - Talisker 10 (200 mL)
* Isle of Mull - Tobermory 10 (30 mL)
* Isle of Orkney - Highland Park 12 (what's left of my 750 mL bottle)

I'm most familiar with the HP12 and most excited about the Talisker 10 so those are on tonight's menu.

<!--more-->

### Talisker 10

The run down:
* Isle of Skye
* 45.8% ABV
* Chill-filtered and E150 coloring added - Diageo Gold.
* Paid $22.56 for a 200 mL bottle from Fine Drams
* $2.82/25mL pour
* Corporate overlord: Diageo
* [Official website](https://www.malts.com/en-us/our-whisky-collection/talisker/talisker-10-years-old/)

* **Nose:** Light peat smoke, sea air. Kind of like a light Laphroaig.
* **Taste:** Initially sweet, then a peppery sensation and some peat smoke.
* **Finish:** Medium length. Peppery sea air. Again like a light Laphroaig with a dash of pepper. Maybe a bit of citrus.

This seems to be a tad less smoky than the Kildalton Islays but its full of flavor. I like the peppery note a lot and it's a nice mix with the Laphroaig-like sea-air profile. I can see why this is often put up as a recommendation to those new to peated whiskies. The pepper is the standout note here. Otherwise, it's very similar to the peated Islay whiskies. Not a whole lot of complexity going on but that peppery note is so good. I also like the slightly higher than standard 45.8% ABV. **B/B+** first impression. Wish I would have sprung for an additional sample of the 18 year old.

### Highland Park 12

Mmmm... Highland Park 12, the whisky that started this journey. Tasting next to the Talisker really brings out the sherry sweetness and highlights the peat. This is a good 1-2 punch.

Good stuff here. Back tomorrow with a couple of hte samples.

Whisky Bob signing off.
