---
layout: post
title: Mystery Hooch - Part 1
date: 2018-04-23
category: blog
tags: [Mystery]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I was honored to be gifted 100 mLs each of three mystery whiskies by my buddy Whisky Matty with instructions to taste and share my notes. I have no idea what any of these are and am excited to jump in blind! I'm going to start by sampling 25 mL of each per day. I'll then drink two a day, sampling each side by side with the other. That should leave 25 mL of each and I'm hoping Whisky Matty reveals the identities before one final tasting.

Starting off with 25 mL of Mystery Whisky #1

<!--more-->

### Mystery Whisky #1

Tasting notes:
* **Nose**: Lots of cherry! Some bourbon-like notes. Some caramel and vanilla.
* **Palate**: Light-medium bodied that thickens as I swirl. Some cherry and wood.
* **Finish**: Very short. There's a nice cherry aftertaste with some woody notes underneath.

This is really smooth! Not a lot of complexity but a really nice cherry flavor. It's somewhere between yesterday's Buffalo Trace and Stagg Jr. in flavor profile. It's smoother and easier drinking than the Buffalo Trace with a lot of the cherry flavor of the Stagg Jr. It's really easy drinking so I'm guessing it's low to mid 40s in ABV. Because of the profile and smoothness, I think this is some sort of aged bourbon. I started picking up some more sherry-like notes on repeat sniffs so I wouldn't be too surprised if it were actually something else.

This is a nice sipper. I wouldn't mind a bit more kick or a bit more complexity but this is really nice. **B/B+** range on first impression. Nice selection, Whisky Matty! I'm excited to see what else you brought :)

Whisky Bob signing off.
