---
layout: post
title: Grab Bag 5 - Aberlour A'bunadh
date: 2018-03-01
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Speyside, Aberlour A'bunadh 60]
---

25 mL of Aberlour A'bunadh tonight. Sipped on this while lying in bed to help Whisky Kid 1 get to sleep. Mrs. Whisky opened the door and said it smelled like gasoline. I still get Haribo Twin Cherries. I'm glad I live in my world and not hers.

Let's see what the bottle has to say and compare notes:

> A'bunadh, Gaelic for "of the origin" is matured exclusively in Oloroso sherry butts. It is a natural cask strength malt whisky produced without the use of modern chill-filtering methods or the addition of water.  
>
> As Aberlour a'bunadh is released in small batches, the flavours may vary slightly from one bottling to another.  
>
> * Colour: Deep, rich amber.  
> * Nose: Aromas of mixed spices, praline and spiced orange harmonising with rich, deep notes of Oloroso sherry  
> * Palate: Orange, black cherries, dried fruit and ginger spiked with dark bitter chocolate and enriched with sherry and oak. Full bodied and creamy.  
> * Finish: Robust and intense with bitter-sweet notes of exotic spices, dark chocolate and oak.  
>
> Add a dash of water to Aberlour a'bunadh to release all the aromas and bring the whisky to an ideal drinking strength. A light haze may appear in the whisky; this is due to the traditional production methods and does not affect its taste or quality.

I don't know if "deep amber" quite captures the red tone in the appearance. The rest of it sounds more or less correct. I still think of it as a cherry sherry bomb. The thickness of the mouth sticks out. It's 60% ABV so little sips go far.

I added a couple drops of water as suggested... the nose opened up a bit and I was able to get a bit more complexity but the mouth texture seemed to fall apart. It was almost like oil and water in my mouth. I think I prefer small sips at full strength... but maybe I should try water again when it's not syphoned from a water bottle and spat into the glass in a dark room with a near sleeping child nearby...

One other note - I love the flavor here and I love my smoky whiskies. I see an A'bunadh and Ardbeg mixed cocktail recipe in my future.

Whisk(e)y Bob signing off.
