---
layout: post
title: You Spey, I Spey - Part 14
date: 2018-04-07
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Speyside, Speyburn 10, Glenfiddich 12, Glenlivet 12]
---

A combination of busy life stuff and not being too thrilled by these Speysides has really caused my whisky adventure to stall the last couple weeks. I'm coming back today with some vigor and finishing off these Speyside samplers.

### Speyburn 10

My favorite of these milder samplers. It has nice light floral/apple-like flavors but a bit of an earthy kick. Quite good and I hear it comes quite cheap many places. A nice daily sipper for some but I think I'd still prefer a bit stronger flavor.

### Glenfiddich 12 and Glenlivet 12

I was looking back through my blog as I only have ~15 mL of each left and realized I have two separate recent entries for Glenlivet... so apparently I couldn't tell these apart even when directly pouring from a bottle. Dang.

#### Glenlivet 12

OK. This is really Glenlivet 12. Both bottles are side by side and I poured only this one! I'm getting a distint apple/pear note on the nose. My tongue is a bit desensitized due to the Speyburn and I'm just picking up some malty notes in the mouth. It's not bad at all, just kind of there. I like the nose quite a bit at least. Finish is short and sweet.

#### Glenfiddich 12

I'm not getting much on the nose here. Lightness? A bit of alcohol? I get a bit more alcohol burn on the way down but not a whole lot of flavor. I did drink these all pretty quickly back to back so it might be me. But honestly, I just don't care. These whiskies bore me. Life's too short for boring whisky.

### Overall

*Speyburn 10*: B-
*Glenlivet 12*: C
*Glenfiddich 12*: C-

I could drop both the Glens to a **D** if I were feeling especially spicy but I'll cut some slack.

I intended to head back to my Canadian samplers next but I need something to reignite my passion for this hobby. Heading home to Islay to tour the rest of the distilleries :)

Whisky Bob signing off.
