---
layout: post
title: Grab Bag - Part 2
date: 2018-04-22
category: blog
tags: [Bourbon, Buffalo Trace, Stagg Jr. 6]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Grab bag day 2 and we're heading back to 'Murica for some GD bourbon. I lucked into a reasonably priced bottle of Stagg Jr. alongside the Laphroaig Lore and want to give it a quick try alongside its younger stablemate Buffalo Trace.

<!--more-->

### Buffalo Trace Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whiskey

The run down:
* Distilled, aged & bottled at Buffalo Trace Distillery, Franklin County, Kentucky, U. S. of A.
* 45% ABV
* Not sure about filtering or coloring
* Paid $30 for a 750 mL bottle
* $1.00/25mL
* Corporate overlord: Sazerac
* [Official website](https://www.buffalotracedistillery.com/brands/buffalo-trace)

Tasting notes:
* **Nose**: Smells like bourbon. Sweet, caramelly, corny.
* **Palate**: Medium bodied, bit of alcohol burn in the mouth. Sweet vanilla/woody notes
* **Finish**: Relatively quick finish. Some wood notes linger. Sweet.

This came in hot my first couple of sips. After adjusting to the alcohol, this mellowed into a really nice sipper. It has a nice amount of sweetness and woodiness. It's not terribly complex but it does what it does very well. Buffalo Trace is to bourbon as Macallan 12 is to sherried Scotch - both nail their profiles. Solid **B**.

Mrs. Whisky:

> This smells really good. Carmelly. *Drinks.* This burns.

### Stagg Jr. Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whiskey - Batch #6 (bottled Spring, 2016)

Stagg Jr. is a younger version of the annual 15+ year old George T. Stagg release. The older Stagg tends to go in whisky lotteries and oftentimes sells for way over MSRP. I'm not into any of that crap but was more than happy to snag the first bottle of Stagg Jr. I spotted in the wild for a quite reasonable $45. Stagg Jr. [shares the same mash bill](http://bourbonr.com/blog/updated-buffalo-trace-distillery-mash-bills/) as standard Buffalo Trace and with "almost a decade" of aging, I'm expecting something with a bit more complexity.

The run down:
* Distilled, aged & bottled at Buffalo Trace Distillery, Franklin County, Kentucky, U. S. of A.
* 66.25% ABV (hot damn! - ed)
* Barrel proof, unfiltered
* Paid $45 for a 750 mL bottle
* $1.50/25mL
* Corporate overlord: Sazerac
* [Official website](http://www.buffalotracedistillery.com/brands/stagg-jr)

Tasting notes:
* **Nose**: Big alcohol hit. Underneath is a profile similar to standard BT but with a bit more sherry-like sweetness. Get a lot of cherries and some earthy funk after I get through the alcohol.
* **Palate**: Heavier like A'bunadh. The most tingling I've yet had on my tongue from any whisky. A sense of maraschino cherries.
* **Finish**: Surprisingly short. A nice cherry sweetness remains in my throat for awhile. Lots of cherry.

I'm actually not getting a lot of complexity here right off the bat. It's a cask strength cherry bomb and it scratches the same itch as A'bunadh. Which is great - my first impression is a **B+**. I hear this takes a bit of time to really open up and I'm curious to revisit it in a couple weeks.

Mrs. Whisky:

> Smells good. *Drinks.* Oh, that's painful! Why do you make me drink this shit? *A minute later.* That one actually tastes pretty good on the back end. There's a pleasant taste in the back of my throat. It just burns like hell to get there.

There you have it. I was searching for my next whisky series and received an awesome surprise from by buddy Whiskey Matty today... mystery whiskies!

Mr. and Mrs. Whiskey Bob signing off.
