---
layout: post
title: Happy St. Paddy's Day - Part 1
date: 2018-03-17
category: blog
tags: [Irish, Jameson Caskmates IPA, Redbreast 12, Connemara Peated]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Happy St. Patrick's day, everybody! I'm celebrating with a trio of Irish whiskies - Jameson Caskmates IPA, Redbreast 12 and Connemara Peated.

<!--more-->

### Jameson Caskmates IPA

I thought standard Jameson hit the same notes as Redbreast 12 but worse. I'm not really a fan of hoppy beer. So why would I try the two of these combined together? Cause the sampler was only $1.99!

#### Facts:

* 40% ABV
* "Blended Irish whiskey finished in craft Irish Pale Ale-seasoned barrels"
* No age statement
* Paid $1.99/50mL
* $1.00/25mL pour

#### Notes:

* Nose: Like regular Jameson with floral sweetness. Bananas. Quite lovely, actually!
* Taste: Light, bananas
* Finish: First like standard Jameson and then the hops hit with dryness and bitterness. I don't like hoppy beer and I don't really like this. The hops subside and the Irish flavor with a bit more banana sweetness lasts awhile. I like the end of the finish.

#### Conclusion:

I really like the nose on this. Like an absurd amount. I've read other people picking up a banana note in some bourbons but this is the first time I've experienced it. This like is balanced out by an intense hatred of the hoppy part of the finish. It rounds out to nice banana notes but I really dislike that hoppy part.

I bet folks who like Jameson and hoppy beer will really love this. I'd say I like it more than standard Jameson just because it's a lot more interesting. I'm really glad I tried this, especially for the low price. I'll let the last half of the bottle sit awhile and finish it off later.

### Redbreast 12

This is the only full bottle of Irish whiskey I've purchased. I like it quite a bit but haven't had it in awhile. I'm going to approach it fresh and write down notes.

#### Facts:

* 40% ABV
* Single Pot Still Irish Whiskey
* 12 years old
* Paid $46.99/750mL
* $1.57/25mL pour

#### Notes:

* Nose: Distinctly "Irish" character. Almost wine like.
* Taste: Medium bodied. Honey and woody.
* Finish: Medium length, nice complexity. Similar notes as taste. Some drying.

#### Conclusion:

I didn't fully appreciate the sweetness of the Caskmates until drinking this. This is quite a bit more savory if you will. I've been sampling this while completing housework so didn't have the best of notes. Biggest take away is that it's far less sweet than the IPA caskmates. Very solid sipper here.

### Connemara Peated

And now for an expression I've looked forward to trying since I got into this hobby - a peated Irish whisky!

#### Facts:

* 40% ABV
* Peated Single Malt Irish Whiskey
* No age statement
* Paid ~$5.29/30mL sample as part of a ~$300 order shipped from Danish company [Fine Drams](https://www.finedrams.com)
* $2.65/15mL pour

#### Notes:

* Nose: Citrusy peat like a lighter Laphroaig/Lagavulin. Some Irish character underneath.
* Taste: Medium bodied, peat flavor that starts light and build a bit in intensity.
* Finish: Light-medium peat smoke, then some sort of lemony/gingery/grassy hybrid. It seems to rest more on my tongue than the back of my mouth. It doesn't quite cohere. Some bitterness and drying. Really odd.

#### Conclusion:

This is a bit of an odd duck and I don't quite know what to make of it. I like the mix of peat smoke and Irish character yet somehow the whole is less than the sum of its parts. I don't think I like that finish at all. I wonder if the aged expressions in Connemara's line are a bit more cohesive.

Mrs. Whiskey's take on the Connemara:

> * Nose: Doesn't burn my nostrils like some of the others. I can't really identify particular smells. It's not really sweet or smoky. Kind of neutral. A bit of a chemically/alcoholish smell but it's not knocking me out.  
> * Taste/Finish: Kind of stings. It's kind of unremarkable. It tastes boozy but it's not offensive but I also don't really get anything out of it. Just kind of generic alcohol.


### Final Thoughts

I went back and forth between the Caskmates and the Redbreast earlier in the day. I started with the Caskmates and then the Redbreast seemed oddly savory. The Caskmates seemed overly sweet when I went back to it.

The Connemara was interesting but didn't quite live up to expectations due to the odd finish. I'm going to give these a few days or so before revisiting to see if they change or I do.

Whiskey Bob signing off.
