---
layout: post
title: O Canada Part 2
date: 2018-03-11
category: blog
tags: [Canadian, Canadian Club, Pendleton]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I'm going to speed thing up a bit and do the rest of these samplers 25 mL each day. Up today is what I believe to be bottom shelf stuff - Canadian Club and Pendleton standard expressions. I'm diving in head first and pouring these neat in Glencairns. Because I'm obviously a gentleman. As usual, just tasting today. I'll do a bit more research when I revisit later.

<!--more-->

### Canadian Club

#### Facts:

* 40% ABV
* Blended Canadian whisky
* No age statement
* Paid $2.99/50mL
* $1.50/25mL pour

#### Notes:

* Nose: Big alcohol hit. Some corn sweetness and some sort of spice - rye? wood? Not sure.
* Taste: A lot of sweetness in the mouth. Alcohol.
* Finish: Alcohol burn, sweetness. Pleasant when the burn stops. Something like black licorice / anise reveals itself in the finish.

#### Conclusion:

Not great at all. I like the anise note but otherwise the alcohol burn detracts and the rest doesn't do much for me. I like it better than the Pendleton. It's more interesting than the Crowns of yesterday but also a bit more burn. It lacks that "cheap whisky" note I get from the Crowns.

### Pendleton

#### Facts:

* 40% ABV
* Blended Canadian whisky
* No age statement
* Paid $4.49/50mL
* $2.25/25mL pour

#### Notes:

* Nose: Nail polish remover with a touch of sugar.
* Taste: Alcohol burn, numbing, sweet notes.
* Finish: Warming, alcohol, corn sweetness, bitterness. Bitter sweetness lasts the longest. Unpleasant at first but becomes neutral the more I drink... neutral at best...

#### Conclusion:

Alright, this stuff is dreadful. Tons of alcohol burn with flavors that are mostly unpleasant. We're in **D** range, folks!

### Final Thoughts

These certainly aren't winners but I'm glad to start filling out the bottom range of my grading scale. There's interesting stuff happening in the Canadian Club and I'm curious about their higher tier stuff. The Pendleton is the worst thing I've yet tried.

Whiskey Bob signing off.
