---
layout: post
title: Kickin' in Kildalton - Part 6
date: 2018-03-07
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Islay, Lagavulin 16]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

### Lagavulin 16

Completing my daily sampling of the Kildaltons with my first love, Lagavulin 16. I can easily say my appreciation for the others has grown and my appreciation for this has diminished somewhat over these last months of intense whiskification. I think it's that I really appreciate the boldness of the Ardbeg and I'm getting a better appreciation for the subtleties of the Laphroaig. Now, I still think Lagavulin is the tops. But man, it really bothers me that it sells for over $100 in some areas compared to $40 for the Laphroaig.

<!--more-->

Ignoring price, how's the whisky? I'm getting more of a wine-like sweetness on the nose similar to Bunnahabhain 12 today. Medium mouth feel. Nice amount of smokiness and "band-aids" on the finish. The smokiness is lighter than the other two. The finish pushes it over the top for me. Love chewing on some band-aids! It seems the best integrated and there are so many tasty notes working together. Still my favorite.

### Mrs. Whisky's Take

> I like the Laphroaig better. This is less smoky and has more of an alcohol burn. The Ardbeg had terrible flavor with a lingering dirty aftertaste. This has a lot of burn on the front end but it doesn't really last. The sting stays with me more than the taste.  
>
> **_Grade:_** **C-**. I still don't like smoky whisky.

I'm a little surprised - I thought this would be the least offensive of the bunch. That's a win for you, Laphroaig!

Mr. and Mrs. Whisky Bob signing off.
