---
layout: post
title: Highland Park 12 part 7
date: 2018-01-27
category: daily
tags: [scotland, islands, highlandpark, highlandpark12, islay, ardbeg, ardbeguigeadail]
---

Wrapping up the week of Highland Park 12 today. Took advantage of a leisurely working around the home to sample a few pours. First up is a small 15 mL pour neat in a Glencairn. I chose this amount to see if I could squeeze out three pours from a 50 mL sampler bottle... it's not quite enough to get a full sense of the whisky. Think I need to go to 25 mL pours in the future. A decent amount of alcohol on the nose. There's some other sort of medicinal scent here I can't quite describe but it's been here every time. Getting a lot of smoke in the body this time. After sitting awhile, get more toffee/carmally notes. Swirl it around to release the alcohol and I get less "dark" and more "bright" flavors for lack of better vocabulary. Finish continues to be drying like a white wine and lasts quite awhile. This continues to be very pleasant. This 15 mL pour cost $0.86 prorated from a $43 750 mL bottle.

Had a chance for a second dram with a late dinner. Let's see how this elixer holds up to an Italian sandwich, pickle and salt & vinegar chips... surprise, surprise, not terribly well! The whisky flavor is muted, leaving behind some alcohol burn and the mouth drying and lingering smoke. A stronger Islay would be a better bet if one wanted a smokey kick with a sammy. This 25 mL pour cost $1.43 prorated from a $43 750 mL bottle.

And so ends my week of HP12 as a daily drinker. 
