---
layout: post
title: You Spey, I Spey - Part 5
date: 2018-03-18
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Speyside, Glenlivet 12]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

I've been putting this off long enough. Time to finish these Speyside samplers and write some reviews. I have 2/3 of each 50 mL sampler left and will take a couple days to finish up each expression. Up first, Glenlivet 12. I was not impressed my [first time]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-02-14-speyside-03 %}) trying the Glenlivet 12. I was utterly bored. I've since seen this expression show up on many lists for beginners so I feel like I should give it an honest shot. I'm drinking 15mL of it solo today.

<!--more-->

### Glenlivet 12

#### Facts

* 40% ABV
* Single Malt Speyside Scotch
* 12 years old
* Matured in "traditional and American oak" casks
* Paid $5.29/50mL
* $1.59/15mL pour

#### Notes

* Nose: Boozy cider and apple juice. A hint of spiciness. This is more interesting than I remember!
* Taste: A bit of alcohol hit up front and it turns into apple juice.
* Finish: Apple juice with some warmth on the back of the throat.

#### Conclusion:

Wow, I actually kind of like this! This is a good justification of my approach to give bottles, even samples, some time between tastings to get a better appreciation. I don't know if it's the booze oxidizing, changes in my palate or just different tasting circumstances but I'm appreciating the apple-like light character of the expression this time. BTW, I'm drinking this while sitting on the floor in the Whisky Kids' room listening to an "Amelia Bedelia" audiobook trying to get them to sleep. Maybe that's what it takes to make Glenlivet interesting...

Whisky Bob signing off.
