---
layout: post
title: Grab Bag 1 - Laphroaig Triple Wood
date: 2018-02-25
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Islay, Laphroaig Triple Wood]
---

I had a wonderful vacation with family and it was a nice break from whisky. We flew back home today and I had the pleasure of sampling Laphroaig Triple Wood at the Detroit airport. This was a fair deal at $15 for a healthy neat pour in what appears to be a [Taylor'd Milestones Reserve Whiskey Glass](https://www.amazon.com/Taylord-Milestones-Reserve-Whiskey-Glass/dp/B01ATV2Q5Q/ref=pd_sim_79_3?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B01ATV2Q5Q&pd_rd_r=D7XZJC5Y7HT47XV9P2D4&pd_rd_w=qDGE2&pd_rd_wg=r5mRw&psc=1&refRID=D7XZJC5Y7HT47XV9P2D4). First off, I love this glass! It's like a fatter Glencairn.

This is a nice dram to further explore my cask questions from a couple days ago. To quote from [the official website](https://www.laphroaig.com/product/triple-wood/):

> Triple Wood is an extension of the Quarter Cask expression and is special for its triple maturation, which creates a unique blend of our signature peat-smoked liquid with softer notes of fruit and spices. First maturing in ex-bourbon barrels, second maturation in quarter casks and then a third maturation in European oak casks previously used for Oloroso sherry.  
>   
> This final stage allows for a slow maturation – all leading to a soft, complex and fully rounded flavour. When tasted, Triple Wood begins with a subtle sherry sweetness before offering up spiciness and nuttiness and a huge peat flavour.

So there's a lot going on here with the mix of casks. At 48% ABV, I'm also expecting a bit of a kick.

### Tasting

* Nose: Classic Laphroaig 10 with smoke and sea. Not getting much sweetness initially. It opens up nicely after a few minutes and has a sweetness like caramel or toffee. The Laphroaig sea notes are a nice undercurrent to the toffee - it reminds me of a nice salt water taffy.
* Taste: Sweeter than standard Laphroaig with some woody notes. Thick mouth feel.
* Finish: Long! Woody! Pleasant warming feeling. Similar to the standard but woodier.

### With Food

The food arrives - French dip, pickled veggies and garlic fries... should be interesting...

The pickles are an unexpected tasty pairing. They really bring out the sea and sweetness of the Laphroaig. Really lovely.

The garlic in the fries completely kills my palate. I just get basic smoke and sherry notes out of the whisky.

### With Water

I wait a bit for my palate to clear and add a couple drops of water to finish the dram. The water opens up a smoothness on the nose and brings out an oaky spiciness on the palate and more sherry on the finish.

### Conclusions

I like the Laphroaig Triple Wood a lot. It's to the 10 year old as the Lagavulin Distiller's Edition is to the Lagavulin 16 - basically a sherried version. The Triple Wood seems to be a lot cheaper than the Lagavulin Distiller's and is a much better deal.

In thinking about the various flavors and the various casks, I think the spiciness is coming from the quarter casks and the sweetness is coming from the sherry casks. The Laphroaig Quarter Cask expression gets a lot of love online and seems to be the base for this - worth adding to the list.

The first day of the grab bag was a smashing success. Looking forward to returning to my growing inventory tomorrow.

Whisky Bob signing off.
