---
layout: post
title: Mystery Hooch - Part 4
date: 2018-04-27
category: blog
tags: [Mystery]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

So... that Manhattan was WAY stronger than I expected last night! That was the first time I've gotten tipsy this entire adventure. I've been thinking in mL and didn't do the conversion... turns out 2 oz of 60% ABV Stagg Jr. is about 60 mL. That's a lot! Sorry, math, I will use you next time.

Back to mystery fun and it's another heavy drinking night. 3x 25 mL samplers together today.

<!--more-->

### Nose

* **#1**: Cherry!
* **#2**: Vanilla and wood!
* **#3**: Scotch-like sherry sweetness!

I find that my nose quickly gets saturated and I can't tell the difference after sniffing a few whiskies. My sense of smell comes back after drinking a bit.

### Palate

* **#1**: Sweet right off the bat. Cherries in my mouth.
* **#2**: Thicker than the others. Woody notes
* **#3**: I get more complexity out of this one now. Mix of sweet and wood.

### Finish

* **#1**: Mediumish finish. I get more woody notes now than before.
* **#2**: Sweet but kind of lost compared to the other two.
* **#3**: Woody and sweet finish up front. Woody and tanniny after a bit.


### Conclusion

* **#1**: Still my favorite with that nice cherry flavor. Yum!
* **#2**: Interesting to see this one kind of fade when placed next to the bolder flavors. It came out as good but devolved into just OK when I hit whisky overload.
* **#3**: I like this one better than the first time I tried it. I'm getting more complexity and starting to dig the woody notes.

I shouldn't be surprised by now, but 75 mL of whisky is too much for me! I ended up having a bit of each left over and I'm going to see how they hold up staying out overnight.

Whisky Bob signing off.
