---
layout: post
title: Grab Bag 6 - Highland Park 12 and Ardbeg Uigeadail
date: 2018-03-02
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Island, Highland Park 12, Islay, Ardbeg Uigeadail]
---

My A'bunadh and Ardbeg cocktail idea yesterday has led me to taste a couple of smoky sweet scotches today. I kicked this blog off with Highland Park 12 and it's been too long since I've paid it a visit. Let's crack open another mini bottle of Ardbeg Uigeadail while we're at it.

### Highland Park 12

#### Facts:

* Island Scotch - Orkney
* 43% ABV
* Paid $43/750mL
* $0.86/15mL neat pour in Glencairn

#### Tasting:

Really like this stuff. I think I have a better appreciation for it now after sampling the world a bit. Lots of sherry sweetness with a nice light peat smokiness. It's still a bit unbalanced and doesn't quite fully cohere... yet all the flavors are nice on their own. It reminds me of a young person with lots of disparate talents who doesn't quite know who they want to be.

### Ardbeg Uigeadail

#### Facts:

* Islay Scotch
* 54.2% ABV
* Paid $6/50mL sampler
* ~$2/~15mL neat pour in Glencairn

#### Tasting:

This is a bit more intense than I remembered from last time. Heavy peat smoke with a light sweetness on the back end. I remember the sweet notes being more prevalent before. I did have spaghetti, meatballs and garlic bread earlier so that could have messed up my palate. Man, garlic really is something to avoid when tasting whisky. Shoot... well, it'll be an interesting point of comparison when I revisit this bottle.

Whisky Bob signing off.
