---
layout: post
title: Grab Bag 2 - Buffalo Trace and Lagavulin Distillers
date: 2018-02-26
category: blog
tags: [Scotch, Islay, Lagavulin Distillers 2017, Bourbon, Buffalo Trace]
---

This is grab bag week and I'm gonna drink what I want to. That's going to lead to some weird pairings like today: Lagavulin Distiller's Edition and my first bourbon of the blog, Buffalo Trace. How does that come together? Well, yesterday's Laphroaig Triple Wood reminded me a lot of the Laga DE. I also just want to drink some bourbon so there's that.

### Lagavulin Distiller's Edition (2017 bottling)

This tasting reinforces my thoughts from last night - there's a similarity between this and the Laphroaig Triple Wood. But there's more complexity here and I'd put it a tier above the Triple Wood. I'm not sure it's completely worth the significant increase in cost ($98 vs $60 at one of my better-priced local shops).

Also to note, the Lagavulin DE packaging states the use of Pedro Ximenez sherry casks. From what I gather, PX is one of the sweetest sherry types. Not sure what type of sherry casks the Laph uses.

### Buffalo Trace

And now for something completely different...

I had a nice extended fight to get two overly tired Whisky kids to bed to prepare my palate for bourbon. I picked up this 750 mL bottle of Buffalo Trace for $30 before I had an idea of what this whiskey journey would turn into. I wanted to try a bourbon for a reasonable price and BT is considered a standard.

Nose: Smell is so linked to memory and I've overcome by nostalgia for college here. I was by no means a heavy drinker but enjoyed mixing soda with various whiskies. I liked Jim Beam and Evan Williams as they were cheaper than Jack. This smell takes me right back to my college apartment. Funny how that works.

Getting past the smell memory, I detect an overall sweetness. It's very different from the sweet notes I get from sherried Scotch. I'm going to admit my ignorance here but believe that's the corn.

Taste: Oiliness develops as I chew. Way more of an up front kick than the Laga.

Finish: Medium, strong spiciness (the rye in the mashbill?). A menthol cough-drop like note with more sweetness and spiciness. Less complex but very straight forward. Rather pleasing overall.

This is nice. I like bourbon, too. It'll be fun to explore some more expressions. I'm especially curious about trying different mashbills with varying levels of corn, rye and wheat.

Whisk(e)y Bob signing off.
